docs/swebench-lite-lane.md, before:

# SWE-bench Lite lane (task pack + trace scoring)

This lane lets Happy Paths consume a deterministic SWE-bench Lite slice and score
trace outcomes with existing long-horizon gates.

It is intentionally split into two stages:

1. prepare a reproducible task pack,
2. run your agent/harness externally and capture traces,
3. score those traces with Happy Paths observed/trajectory gates.

## 1) Fetch a deterministic task pack

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:fetch -- \
  --count 50 \
  --offset 0 \
  --out .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json
```

This pulls rows from `princeton-nlp/SWE-bench_Lite` via Hugging Face
`/rows` API and writes a local task pack (instance IDs, repo, problem statement,
commits, test metadata, patches).

## 2) (Optional) Build prompt JSONL for your runner

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:prompts -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --out .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/prompts.jsonl
```

Each JSONL row includes `instanceId`, repo/commit metadata, and a plain-text
prompt body you can feed into your harness.

## 3) Capture traces while solving tasks

Run tasks with your preferred harness/agent and emit Happy Paths-compatible
trace JSONL into a dedicated trace root.

### Pi runner helper (recommended)

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:pi -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --count 3 \
  --replicates 1 \
  --trace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces \
  --workspace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/workspaces \
  --out-dir .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/pi_runs \
  --session-id-prefix swebench \
  --trace-state-mode isolated \
  --timeout-seconds 600 \
  --provider openai \
  --model codex-mini-latest
```

This helper:

- checks out each task repo at `base_commit`,
- hard-resets the checkout before each `off`/`on` run (clean A/B repo state),
- by default cleans `trace-root` before the run (`--no-clean-trace-root` to disable),
- supports `--trace-state-mode isolated` (default) so OFF/ON runs do not share
  mutable trace state,
- can seed each run from a frozen baseline corpus via `--seed-trace-root <path>`,
- when seeding isolated runs, keeps only the newly generated session file in each
  run directory (seed traces are used for retrieval warm-start but excluded from
  scored outputs),
- runs Pi twice per replicate (`off`, then `on`),
- captures logs/prompts under `pi_runs/logs/`,
- writes extension traces under `trace-root`.

To preserve trajectory-level causality for OFF vs ON comparisons, use a strict
session ID format:

- `swebench::<instance_id>::<off|on>::<replicate>`

Example:

- `swebench::django__django-11179::off::r1`
- `swebench::django__django-11179::on::r1`

This lets the lane compute paired trajectory deltas on full runs (not just
static retrieval snapshots).

When session IDs follow this format, the Pi extension also attempts
instance-scoped retrieval (same `instance_id`) before falling back to global
tool-result hints.

Keep this corpus isolated under one trace root, e.g.
`.happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces`.

## 4) Score the trace corpus with long-horizon gates

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:lane -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --trace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces \
  --format trace \
  --tool-name bash \
  --session-id-prefix swebench \
  --require-task-pairs \
  --min-family-disjoint-pair-count 20 \
  --out-dir .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/results
```

Outputs:

- `observed_ab_report.json`
- `trajectory_outcome_report.json`
- `summary.json` (headline metrics + command provenance + `taskPairedTrajectory` deltas)

`summary.json` now includes:

- `evaluationPolicy` (primary lane = `task_paired_trajectory`)
- `qualityFlags` (including sparse long-horizon pairability flags)

The trace stream also includes `checkpoint` events (`kind=happy_paths_prior_hints`)
so you can inspect hint counts, retrieval scope, and fallback behavior per run.

## Artifact publication policy (repo vs GCS)

Recommended split:

- **Public repo (small, stable evidence):**
  - `summary.json`
  - `observed_ab_report.json`
  - `trajectory_outcome_report.json`
  - run `manifest.json`
  - optional checksum/pointer metadata
- **GCS (bulk provenance payloads):**
  - raw trace JSONL trees
  - runner stdout/stderr logs
  - compressed full bundles (`runs + traces + results`)

Practical rule of thumb:

- If a full artifact bundle is very small (for example <= 10 MB compressed),
  you may include it directly in GitHub for convenience.
- Otherwise keep the repo lean: commit only the small evidence set and publish
  full payloads in GCS with URI + SHA256 recorded in repo metadata.

## Notes

- This lane does **not** execute SWE-bench itself; it prepares tasks and scores
  traces you captured.
- `--require-task-pairs` will fail the run if no trajectory pairs can be built
  from session IDs.
- Interpret `taskPairedTrajectory` as the primary causal OFF/ON comparison lane,
  especially when long-horizon holdout pair counts are sparse.
- Use long-horizon observed/trajectory lanes as secondary diagnostics until
  pairability is sufficiently powered.
- Use this as benchmark evidence generation, not as a substitute for correctness
  validation of patch outputs.

Commit message:

hints: prioritize non-error evidence and add failure warnings (#50)
Prefer non-error tool-result retrieval, add failure-warning fallback hints, enrich indexed metadata (isError/outcome/tool metadata), and extend checkpoint telemetry plus tests/docs.

docs/swebench-lite-lane.md, after:

# SWE-bench Lite lane (task pack + trace scoring)

This lane lets Happy Paths consume a deterministic SWE-bench Lite slice and score
trace outcomes with existing long-horizon gates.

It is intentionally split into two stages:

1. prepare a reproducible task pack,
2. run your agent/harness externally and capture traces,
3. score those traces with Happy Paths observed/trajectory gates.

## 1) Fetch a deterministic task pack

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:fetch -- \
  --count 50 \
  --offset 0 \
  --out .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json
```

This pulls rows from `princeton-nlp/SWE-bench_Lite` via Hugging Face
`/rows` API and writes a local task pack (instance IDs, repo, problem statement,
commits, test metadata, patches).

## 2) (Optional) Build prompt JSONL for your runner

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:prompts -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --out .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/prompts.jsonl
```

Each JSONL row includes `instanceId`, repo/commit metadata, and a plain-text
prompt body you can feed into your harness.

## 3) Capture traces while solving tasks

Run tasks with your preferred harness/agent and emit Happy Paths-compatible
trace JSONL into a dedicated trace root.

### Pi runner helper (recommended)

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:pi -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --count 3 \
  --replicates 1 \
  --trace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces \
  --workspace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/workspaces \
  --out-dir .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/pi_runs \
  --session-id-prefix swebench \
  --trace-state-mode isolated \
  --timeout-seconds 600 \
  --provider openai \
  --model codex-mini-latest
```

This helper:

- checks out each task repo at `base_commit`,
- hard-resets the checkout before each `off`/`on` run (clean A/B repo state),
- by default cleans `trace-root` before the run (`--no-clean-trace-root` to disable),
- supports `--trace-state-mode isolated` (default) so OFF/ON runs do not share
  mutable trace state,
- can seed each run from a frozen baseline corpus via `--seed-trace-root <path>`,
- when seeding isolated runs, keeps only the newly generated session file in each
  run directory (seed traces are used for retrieval warm-start but excluded from
  scored outputs),
- runs Pi twice per replicate (`off`, then `on`),
- captures logs/prompts under `pi_runs/logs/`,
- writes extension traces under `trace-root`.

To preserve trajectory-level causality for OFF vs ON comparisons, use a strict
session ID format:

- `swebench::<instance_id>::<off|on>::<replicate>`

Example:

- `swebench::django__django-11179::off::r1`
- `swebench::django__django-11179::on::r1`

This lets the lane compute paired trajectory deltas on full runs (not just
static retrieval snapshots).

When session IDs follow this format, the Pi extension also attempts
instance-scoped retrieval (same `instance_id`) before falling back to global
tool-result hints.

Keep this corpus isolated under one trace root, e.g.
`.happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces`.

## 4) Score the trace corpus with long-horizon gates

```bash
npm run benchmark:swebench-lite:lane -- \
  --tasks .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/tasks.json \
  --trace-root .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/traces \
  --format trace \
  --tool-name bash \
  --session-id-prefix swebench \
  --require-task-pairs \
  --min-family-disjoint-pair-count 20 \
  --out-dir .happy-paths/benchmarks/swebench_lite_50/results
```

Outputs:

- `observed_ab_report.json`
- `trajectory_outcome_report.json`
- `summary.json` (headline metrics + command provenance + `taskPairedTrajectory` deltas)

`summary.json` now includes:

- `evaluationPolicy` (primary lane = `task_paired_trajectory`)
- `qualityFlags` (including sparse long-horizon pairability flags)

The trace stream also includes `checkpoint` events (`kind=happy_paths_prior_hints`)
so you can inspect hint counts, retrieval scope, outcome filter mode
(`non_error` vs `any`), and fallback behavior per run.

## Artifact publication policy (repo vs GCS)

Recommended split:

- **Public repo (small, stable evidence):**
  - `summary.json`
  - `observed_ab_report.json`
  - `trajectory_outcome_report.json`
  - run `manifest.json`
  - optional checksum/pointer metadata
- **GCS (bulk provenance payloads):**
  - raw trace JSONL trees
  - runner stdout/stderr logs
  - compressed full bundles (`runs + traces + results`)

Practical rule of thumb:

- If a full artifact bundle is very small (for example <= 10 MB compressed),
  you may include it directly in GitHub for convenience.
- Otherwise keep the repo lean: commit only the small evidence set and publish
  full payloads in GCS with URI + SHA256 recorded in repo metadata.

## Notes

- This lane does **not** execute SWE-bench itself; it prepares tasks and scores
  traces you captured.
- `--require-task-pairs` will fail the run if no trajectory pairs can be built
  from session IDs.
- Interpret `taskPairedTrajectory` as the primary causal OFF/ON comparison lane,
  especially when long-horizon holdout pair counts are sparse.
- Use long-horizon observed/trajectory lanes as secondary diagnostics until
  pairability is sufficiently powered.
- Use this as benchmark evidence generation, not as a substitute for correctness
  validation of patch outputs.
